Everyone you ask will give you a slightly
different description of what Data Science
is, but most people agree that it has a significant
data analysis component. Data analysis isn't
new. What is new is the vast quantity of data
available from massively varied sources: from
log files, email, social media, sales data,
patient information files, sports performance
data, sensor data, security cameras, and many
more besides. At the same time that there
is more data available than ever, we have
the computing power needed to make a useful
analysis and reveal new knowledge.
Data science can help organizations understand
their environments, analyze existing issues,
and reveal previously hidden opportunities.
Data scientists use data analysis to add to
the knowledge of the organization by investigating
data, exploring the best way to use it to
provide value to the business.
So, what is the process of data science? Many
organizations will use data science to focus
on a specific problem, and so it's essential
to clarify the question that the organization
wants answered. This first and most crucial
step defines how the data science project
progresses. Good data scientists are curious
people who ask questions to clarify the business
need.
The next questions are: "what data do we need
to solve the problem, and where will that
data come from?". Data scientists can analyze
structured and unstructured data from many
sources, and depending on the nature of the
problem, they can choose to analyze the data
in different ways. Using multiple models to
explore the data reveals patterns and outliers;
sometimes, this will confirm what the organization
suspects, but sometimes it will be completely
new knowledge, leading the organization to
a new approach.
When the data has revealed its insights, the
role of the data scientist becomes that of
a storyteller, communicating the results to
the project stakeholders. Data scientists
can use powerful data visualization tools
to help stakeholders understand the nature
of the results, and the recommended action
to take.
Data Science is changing the way we work;
it's changing the way we use data and it’s
changing the way organisations understand
the world.